docs: Add ERC20 proxy contract detection specs (#86)
RequestNetwork/requestNetwork: packages/advanced-logic/specs/payment-network-erc20-proxy-contract-0.1.0-DRAFT.md

| Mainnet | TODO                                       |
| Rinkeby | TODO                                       |

## Properties

| Property                  | Type   | Description                                    | Requirement   |
| ------------------------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| **id**                    | String | constant value: "pn-erc20-proxy-contract"      | **Mandatory** |
| **type**                  | String | constant value: "paymentNetwork"               | **Mandatory** |
| **version**               | String | constant value: "0.1.0"                        | **Mandatory** |
| **events**                | Array  | List of the actions performed by the extension | **Mandatory** |
| **values**                | Object |                                                |               |
| **values.salt**           | String | Salt for the request                           | **Mandatory**      |
| **values.paymentAddress** | String | Ethereum address for the payment               | Optional      |
| **values.refundAddress**  | String | Ethereum address for the refund                | Optional      |

> Note: to use the Rinkeby testnet just replace the `currency.network` to `rinkeby`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: to use the Rinkeby testnet, create a request with `currency.network` as `rinkeby`.
```

# Payment Network - ERC20 - proxy contract

You may be interested in this document if:

- you want to create your own implementation of the Request protocol
- you are curious enough to dive and see what is under the hood of the Request protocol

Prerequisite: Having read the advanced logic specification (see [here](./advanced-logic-specs-0.1.0-DRAFT.md)).

## Description

This extension allows the payments and the refunds to be made in ERC20 tokens on the Ethereum blockchain.
The payment is made through a proxy contract. This proxy contract does the ERC20 token transfer on behalf of
the user. The contract ensures a link between an ERC20 transfer and a request through a `paymentReference`.

> This `paymentReference` conists of the last 8 bytes of a salted hash of the requestId: `last8Bytes(hash(requestId + salt + address))`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This `paymentReference` consists of the last 8 bytes of a salted hash of the requestId: `last8Bytes(hash(requestId + salt + address))`:
```

> This `paymentReference` consists of the last 8 bytes of a salted hash of the requestId: `last8Bytes(hash(requestId + salt + address))`:

Reviewer 3: I changed it this week

- `requestId` is the id of the request
- `salt` is a random number with at least 8 bytes of randomness. It must be unique to each request
- `address` is the payment address for payments, the refund address for refunds
- `hash()` is a keccak256 hash function
- `last8Bytes()` take the last 8 bytes

As a payment network, this extension allows to deduce a payment `balance` for the request. (see
[Interpretation](#Interpretation))

## Contract

> The contract contains one function called `transferWithData` which takes 4 arguments:

Reviewer 4: I put `transferFromWithReference` in depend if we consider the proxy smart contract could be used for something else

- `tokenAddress` is the address of the ERC20 contract
- `to` is the destination address for the tokens
- `amount` is the amount of tokens

> - `requestData` is the reference data used to track the transfer (see `paymentReference`)

Reviewer 4: I would say `paymentReference`

The `RequestTransfer` event is emitted when the tokens are transfered. This event contains the same 4 arguments as the `transferWithData` function.

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```solidity
```

pragma solidity 0.5.11;

import "openzeppelin-solidity/contracts/token/ERC20/ERC20.sol";

contract RequestErc20Proxy {

>     event RequestTransfer(address tokenAddress, address indexed to, uint256 amount, bytes indexed requestData);

Reviewer 4: Good point from Romaric on another PR: the event name should be past participle.
I would name it `transferredWithReference`

Reviewer 4: EDIT: not the case in fact

>     function transferFromWithData(

Reviewer 2: earlier (L28, L35) this method is referenced as `transferWithData`, typo?

        address tokenAddress,
        address to,
        uint256 amount,
        bytes calldata requestData
    ) external {
        ERC20 erc20 = ERC20(tokenAddress);
        require(erc20.transferFrom(msg.sender, to, amount), 'transferFrom() failed');
        emit RequestTransfer(tokenAddress, to, amount, requestData);
    }
}
```

| Network | Contract Address                           |
|---------|--------------------------------------------|

> | Mainnet | TODO                                       |

Reviewer 4: No need, I added "Update erc20 proxy contract spec" to the mainnet deployment JIRA task

| Rinkeby | 0xbb98e42b3a103d8f1bebbd2fb88c53d04f05af6c |

## Properties

| Property                  | Type   | Description                                    | Requirement   |
| ------------------------- | ------ | ---------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| **id**                    | String | constant value: "pn-erc20-proxy-contract"      | **Mandatory** |
| **type**                  | String | constant value: "paymentNetwork"               | **Mandatory** |
| **version**               | String | constant value: "0.1.0"                        | **Mandatory** |
| **events**                | Array  | List of the actions performed by the extension | **Mandatory** |
| **values**                | Object |                                                |               |
| **values.paymentAddress** | String | Ethereum address for the payment               | Optional      |
| **values.refundAddress**  | String | Ethereum address for the refund                | Optional      |

> | **values.salt**           | String | Salt for the request                           | Optional      |

Reviewer 5: The salt is **Mandatory**

| **parameters.refundAddress**  | String | Ethereum address for the refund           | Optional      |
| **parameters.salt**           | String | Salt for the request                      | **Mandatory** |

#### Conditions

This action is valid if:

- The `salt` is not empty and long enough (8 bytes of randomness minimum).
- The `currency.type` is ERC20.

#### Warnings

This action must trigger the warnings:

| Warning                                 | Condition                                                   |
| --------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| "paymentAddress is given by the payer"  | If `signer` is the payer **and** `paymentAddress` is given  |
| "refundAddress is given by the payee"   | If `signer` is the payee **and** `refundAddress` is given   |

Note: These warnings are necessary to highlight to avoid attempts of fake payments and refunds. For example, a payer could create a request using as the payment address one of his own addresses. A system could interpret a transaction to this address as a payment while the payee did not receive the funds.

#### Results

> A extension state is created with the following properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An extension state is created with the following properties:
```

| **parameters.refundAddress**  | `refundAddress` from parameters if given, undefined otherwise  |
| **parameters.salt**           | Salt for the request                                           |

---

### Updates

#### addPaymentAddress

##### Parameters

|                               | Type   | Description                               | Requirement   |
| ----------------------------- | ------ | -----------------------------------       | ------------- |
| **id**                        | String | Constant value: "pn-erc20-proxy-contract" | **Mandatory** |
| **action**                    | String | Constant value: "addPaymentAddress"       | **Mandatory** |
| **parameters**                | Object |                                           |               |
| **parameters.paymentAddress** | String | Ethereum address for the payment          | **Mandatory** |

##### Conditions

This action is valid, if:

- The extension state with the id "pn-erc20-proxy-contract" exists
- The signer is the `payee`
- The extension property `paymentAddress` is undefined

##### Warnings

None.

##### Results

> A extension state is updated with the following properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An extension state is updated with the following properties:
```

|  Property                  |  Value                                               |
| -------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------- |
| **values.paymentAddress**  | `paymentAddress` from parameters                     |

> | **parameters.paymentSalt** | Salt for the payment                                 |

Reviewer 5: `| **parameters.paymentSalt** | Salt for the payment                                 |`
line to delete

| ----------------------------- | ----------------------------------- |
| **name**                      | Constant value: "addPaymentAddress" |
| **parameters**                |                                     |
| **parameters.paymentAddress** | `paymentAddress` from parameters    |

#### addRefundAddress

##### Parameters

|                              | Type   | Description                               | Requirement   |
| ---------------------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------        | ------------- |
| **id**                       | String | Constant value: "pn-erc20-proxy-contract" | **Mandatory** |
| **action**                   | String | Constant value: "addRefundAddress"        | **Mandatory** |
| **parameters**               | Object |                                           |               |
| **parameters.refundAddress** | String | Ethereum address for the refund           | **Mandatory** |

##### Conditions

This action is valid if:

- The extension state with the id "pn-erc20-proxy-contract" exists
- The signer is the `payer`
- The extension property `refundAddress` is undefined

##### Warnings

None.

##### Results

> A extension state is updated with the following properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An extension state is updated with the following properties:
```

|  Property                |  Value                                                 |
| ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| **values.refundAddress** | `refundAddress` from parameters                        |

> | **values.refundSalt**    | Salt for the refund                                    |

Reviewer 5: | **parameters.refundSalt** | Salt for the refund |
line to delete

| **events**               | Add an 'addRefundAddress' event (see below) at its end |

The 'addRefundAddress' event:

|  Property                    |  Value                          |
| ---------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| **name**                     | 'addRefundAddress'              |
| **parameters**               |                                 |
| **parameters.refundAddress** | `refundAddress` from parameters |

---

## Interpretation

The proxy contract address is determined by the `request.currency.network` (see (table)[#Contract] with proxy contract addresses).

Any `RequestTransfer` events emitted from the proxy contract with the following arguments are considered as a payment:
- `tokenAddress` `===` `request.currency.value`
- `to` `===` `paymentAddress`

> - `requestData` `===` `last8Bytes(hash(requestId + salt + payment address))`

Reviewer 5: `last8Bytes(hash(lowercase(requestId + salt + payment address)))`

Any `RequestTransfer` events emitted from the proxy contract with the following arguments are considered as a refund:
- `tokenAddress` `===` `request.currency.value`
- `to` `===` `refundAddress`

> - `requestData` `===` `last8Bytes(hash(requestId + salt + payment address))`

Reviewer 5: `last8Bytes(hash(lowercase(requestId + salt + refund address)))`

> - `requestData` `===` `last8Bytes(hash(requestId + salt + payment address))`

Reviewer 5: payment address => refund address
